Mature dik-dik only measure 30-40 cm in height. That’s the length of a standard ruler.|
During the rainy season dik-dik have to move territories because the grass gets so high they can’t see|
Weighing in at only 2-6 kg they are not much heavier than a Christmas turkey.|
Dik-dik can sprint at an incredible 40 km/h|
The dik-dik are not actually the smallest antelope species in Africa. That honour goes to the royal antelope of West Africa, an animal that grows to 25 cm and is nowhere near as cute.|
Dik-dik are named after the sound they make|
Female dik-dik's use a whistling sound to warn of danger|
There are four subspecies of dik-dik.|
Guenther’s dik-dik live in the shrubs of Kenya, Somalia and Kenya|
Kirk’s dik-dik are the most common subspecies and are resident in Tanzania, Kenya, Somalia, Namibia and Angola|
Silver dik-dik are the smallest of the dik-dik subspecies and only weigh 2-3 kg. They occupy southern Ethiopia and Somalia and their population is unknown.|
Salt’s dik-dik are very similar to their silver cousins and live in the desert regions of Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya and Eritrea.|
Dik-dik live in pairs and are one of the most romantic animals on the planet"|
Dik-dik are monogamous and have lifelong partners|
Dik-dik are so dedicated to having alone time that they even chase away their offspring. Mothers are responsible for telling their daughters to leave and fathers must chase off the males. |
Just about every predator can feed on dik-dik. Dik-dik are so incredibly small that they are an easy meal for a huge variety of predators.|
Lions are the only large carnivores that don’t usually hunt dik-dik. The king of the savannah needs to consume an average of 35-50 kg of meat per week so a 3 kg dik-dik is hardly even a snack.|
Dik-dik are so small that they are a popular food of eagles.|
Dik-dik can breed continuously and a pair can time their newborn to coincide with the best conditions in their territory.|
Their monogamous relationship is built entirely on trust. One of the couple is always on lookout as the other grazes.|
Dik-dik mark their territory with tears, not urine. dik-dik bury their heads into the grass and release a special tear from a black spot below their eyes. This sticky preorbital glandular fluid cannot be smelled by human nostrils but conveys everything necessary to other dik-dik.|
It is rare for dik-dik to fight. Instead they show off by building up sizeable heaps of dung.|
Dik-dik are toilet-trained and keep their territory clean, by depositing their excrement all in one place.|
They can survive without water, which is pretty much essential because such a small animal wouldn’t last long at a crowded waterhole.|
Instead of waterholes, dik-dik take most their water from succulents and lush foliage, meaning they extract water directly from their food.|
Most of their feeding takes place during the night and during the hottest months they will become nocturnal.|
A special form of rapid nasal panting means dik-dik breathe without losing moisture through their exhaled air.|
These remarkable antelopes can lower their metabolic rate and adjust their body temperature based on the conditions.|
Even though there are over 1.5 million dik-dik, they are one of Africa’s rarest sights. Not only are they incredibly small, their fur coats provide perfect camouflage with dry season vegetation.|
Dik-dik's are one of JessieLosers favorite animals